Hello and welcome.
In this lecture I want to show you another approach to implementing Singleton.
This is called the eager evaluation approach in eager initialization the instance of the singleton class
is created at the time of class loading.
This is the easiest method to create a singleton class.
It has a drawback that the instance is created even though the client application might not be using
it using this approach rely on the JVM to create the unique instance of the singleton when the class
is loaded.
The JVM Java Virtual Machine guarantees that the instance will be created before any thread access this
accesses the static unique instance variable.
So it is thread safe what happens in this approach is you create instance to the Singleton in a static
initialize or the code is guaranteed to be thread safe because you no longer have an F check inside
your get instance method.
So we just say private static singleton unique instance equals new Singleton.
It's very simple we just have basically return the unique instance inside the get instance where do
you have an instance.
So we just return it.
So as you can notice it's quite easy to implement.
All you do is you say new Singleton create the instance class loading time.
It's pretty straightforward.
You still have your get instance and you just return unique instance
if you're singleton classes not using a lot of resources then the eagle initialization is the approach
to use sometimes you're hear this referred to as eager instantiation initialization is just creating
an instance in most of the scenarios singleton classes are created for resources such as a file system
a database connection etc. You want to avoid the instantiation until or unless the client calls the
get instance method and so we have one more approach that we're gonna discuss which is the bill pupil
Bill Pugh approach.
He has a different approach to creating the singleton class using an inner static helper class that's
really improving upon this one.
This approach to create the singleton class doesn't require any synchronization it's thread safe and
it only creates the instance when the client needs it and I'm talking about the bill Pugh approach right.
That's why most people use the bill Pugh approach which we'll talk about the bill PR approach is easier
easier to understand and implement and it's regarded as the standard method to implement singletons
in Java.
So we'll talk about that next to eager instantiation is the easiest implementation because again all
you do is you modify and create the new instance right at class loading time and then get instance just
returns it.
And I don't feel the need to go into intelligibility because this code is pretty basic and we pretty
much should have the Singleton memorized by now considering we've already gone through three approaches
so remember that eager instantiation initialization approach.
I'll provide a source code example for the class so you can see it.
But again this is throughout safe.
It just has some issues where it's always going to be created even if you don't need it.
And that's what the bill P approach will solve.
Thank you.